# Financial-time-series
Stock markets are an essential component of the economy.  Their prediction naturally arouses a fascination in the academic and financial world.  Indeed, financial time series, due to their wide range application fields, have seen numerous studies being published for their prediction. Some of these studies aim to establish whether there is a strong and predictive link between macroeconomic indicators and stock market trends and thus predict market returns. Stock market prediction however remains a challenging task due to uncertain noise.  To what extent can macroeconomic indicators be strong predictors of stock price ? Can they be used for stock trends modeling ? 

To answer these questions, we will focus on several time series forecasting models.  We will on the one hand use **statistical time series models**, more specifically the most commonly used time series approaches for stock prediction :  *the Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA)*, the *Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Heteroscedasticity (GARCH)* and the *Vector Autoregressive (VAR)* approach.  On the other hand, we will be using two **deep learning models** :  the Long-Short TermMemory (LSTM) and the Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) for our prediction task. 

In the **Portfolio management folder**, we looked directly at the stocks and tried to predict the top ten best performing companies. To do so, we had several variables at our disposal. We had the prices of 291 stocks as well as their volatility, markups and markdowns. A markup is the difference between the market price of a security personally held by a broker-dealer and the price paid by a customer. A markdown in ﬁnance is the difference between the highest current bid price among dealers in the market for a security and the lower price that a dealer charges a customer. A bid price is a price for which somebody is willing to buy something, whether it be a security, asset, commodity, service, or contract. The main goal here is to predict the 6-month performance of stocks with the following inputs : volatility, markup and markdown and the previous 1, 3 and 6-month performances of the stocks.

You can read our paper : **Final year project** for more details
